Baki Hanma (範馬 刃牙, Hanma Baki) is the main character and protagonist of the Baki the Grappler franchise. At thirteen, he decided to take his training into his own hands to perform more intense training in his father's footsteps. He later aims to defeat him. Baki first fought in the no-rules arena at fifteen and went on to become its champion. He is the son of Yuujirou Hanma and Emi Akezawa and the half-brother of Jack Hanma.
Baki is a boy that stands approximately 5'6 (167 cm). Baki's appearance drastically changes throughout the series as he gets older. Baki's first initial appearance at the beginning of Grappler Baki when he is 17 years old is that of a somewhat childlike demeanor, with short hair that is long in the back. Throughout the entire series, Baki is shown to have a severely scarred body all around due to the diligent and uncompromising training he puts himself through, with the only exception being his face. Another noticeable feature of Baki's appearance is his mole just above his upper lip on the side (a physical trait he shares with his mother, Emi Akezawa).

In the flashback, when Baki was 13, his appearance had a minor change. His hair was shorter, with a spiky style, and had an orange color (most likely, this was because he was trying to be more like his father).

In the second manga series, when Baki is 17, his appearance reverts to its initial version at the beginning of Grappler Baki, with a more mature look. A carefree, almost weary demeanor replaces his childlike behavior. His hair is now much longer, going below his ears. Baki's appearance as an 18-year-old in the third manga series is not much different than his previous look in New Grappler Baki. The only changes in his appearance are that his hair is now more curly, and he has grown to be 167 cm (5'6") tall.

Since childhood, Baki's body has undergone intense physical training; Baki is very muscular, flexible, and durable. His physique results from constant, rigorous combat training and is far beyond that of a typical adolescent. His bones and muscles are also described as being better than those of an Olympic sportsman.